okay so the year is wrapping up and this
year in 2020 we saw
a pretty decent selection of gaming
laptops that came out right
there were a few that stood out as being
pretty special like the amd based
gaming laptops those were nice to see
but i really think that 2020s
gaming laptops were mostly refreshes of
older devices which is perfectly fine
right some
some years are going to have like a
slower year like that like an eco round
next year i think we're going to see
three big developments in the gaming
laptop space
number one i think we're going to see
way more premium amd based
gaming laptops like just high end or
like ultra premium
devices that are really well made yet
rock the new amd stuff
hopefully secondly i think we're going
to see a bunch of the rtx
30 series gaming laptops who knows what
the performance will be like but i think
they'll be pretty solid
but the third one and this is what this
video is about i think we're going to
see
a lot of devices with this
screen in it so this is a device that i
was sent
and i think this is like the world's
first
1440p 165hz gaming panel
it is high resolution high refresh
laptop gaming so i was able to get my
hands on this unit because electronics
the company that makes this particular
device
they're the first company to actually
sell these types of panels on
gaming laptops they're gonna beat
everyone else they're literally the
first to market
super fast response time i measured at
2.95 milliseconds
it's fast and the best thing about these
screens is that they're not super
expensive this
is a regular screen it's made by boe
it's like maybe 50
more than like a 1080p panel it is a
regularly priced screen and this was the
thing about
high resolution gaming laptops before
you could get 4k panels before right 120
hertz
they had slow response times but you
could get them but they were like four
or 500
premiums over regular gaming laptops
right so it was just a really
hard feature to recommend this panel
just makes so much more sense and i
think
because of the inclusion of these new
powerful gpus like rtx 20 series 30
series
it just makes sense to have higher
resolution screens on these devices
now i've played a lot of games over the
past couple of weeks on the screen this
has been the only machine that i've been
using for pc gaming
and there's some very obvious advantages
that come with high resolution stuff but
there's some disadvantage that i feel
like you guys should be aware of because
this will be coming down the pipe this
will be
a readily available option for i think
the vast majority
of gaming laptop manufacturers coming
the next couple of months
okay advantages first obviously high
resolution gaming
looks really nice right it's a lot
sharper and in some games you're seeing
details that just didn't exist
at 1080p and websites they tend to look
a little nicer with more resolution same
with your desktop you have
more pixels you have more real estate to
place your windows around
and when you sit at a regular laptop
distance right when you're i don't know
18 20 inches away from your screen
that's how i imagine most people use
their laptops
it feels super sharp it's just you don't
see pixels like you normally see on a
1080p screen
however there are some disadvantages and
a couple of them didn't occur to me
until i actually started using this
so the big one when it comes to gaming
is that when you have a
higher resolution screen your gpu has to
work a little bit harder
to pump out the pixels to fill it all up
right and you're seeing a drop of about
20 to sometimes even 30 depending on the
game
and the graphics settings and it's
significant right it's not something
that you would just be like eh whatever
i'll play at the higher resolution you
do have to kind of pick and choose your
graphic settings in a more
conscious manner because of the higher
resolution
now i would say that the vast majority
of modern day gpus can
easily handle aaa titles at this
resolution
right you saw this year 2020 we saw a
ton of games come out
and the rtx 20 series just they handle
it so easily it's kind of weird to be
doing benchmarks at 1080p it's just like
you're getting 200 frames per second
right so it it's dropped but now it's
more appropriate
to the caliber of screen the other
disadvantage that i noticed
is scaling so let's say you're playing a
demanding title like the upcoming
cyberpunk game
and you're playing it on this system
with a 1440p panel but because the frame
rate isn't amazing you want to drop it
down to 1080p
because of the way that 1440p panels
work when you scale it down to 1080p
it becomes blurry it's noticeably less
sharp and i mean less sharp than even a
regular
1080p panel and that's just the nature
of how 1440p displays
scaled down the other thing is battery
life so when you have
more pixels it just takes more juice to
power it and based on my limited testing
with this unit
it's noticeable but i wouldn't consider
to be really significant
in terms of battery life for regular use
now when it comes to a purchase decision
i do think that the availability of a
high resolution panel makes things a
little bit more complex like
you now have to be more mindful of the
type of games
that you're going to be playing like if
you're someone who wants to play more
open world environmental games that tend
to be a little more demanding
you're gonna have to make sure that if
you pick up a 1440p
screen that your gpu is very powerful or
else you're gonna be forced to be
playing at 1080p
in like a blurry scaled mode or you're
gonna be lowering the graphics settings
on your game
just because you didn't combo all those
pieces right
so you just you got to be aware of the
purchase right you just got to think
about what you're getting and what
you're getting it for
it's a little bit weird right it's
strange to think that this has become
more
of a thoughtful choice but it's just the
nature of having options
one other thing i want to mention if
you've if you're curious
right does higher resolution somehow
make you a better gamer i don't think it
does
over the past couple weeks i've been
testing it and my performance seems to
be
identical i still get rolled but uh yeah
this is kind of like an early look
at the high resolution 1440p
gaming laptops okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]
you